Cockpit 288 (#618)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2023-03-22-cockpit-288.md

---
title: Cockpit 288
author: kkoukiou
date: '2023-03-22'
tags: cockpit, machines, podman
slug: cockpit-288
category: release
summary: 'Metrics redesign, accounts page improvements, virtual machines cloud base editing, services page speed ups, chronyd manual time servers, esbuild bundler'
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 288, cockpit-machines 286, and cockpit-podman 65:

> ## Accounts: Show shell and home directory on an detail page

Reviewer: This is ungrammatical.

```suggestion
## Accounts: Show shell and home directory on detail page
```

![screenshot of new design with more info in default view]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-metrics-new-design-with-more-info-in-default-view.png)

## Storage: Mounting filesystems at boot time

Filesystems created in Cockpit are usually not used for the main operating system, so they are often supplemental. As such, they now default to `nofail`, to allow a server to boot even if the additional filesystem is not mounted.

The new "at boot" option provides several choices with explanations of when the filesystem would be mounted and what would happen if it was not mounted.

![screenshot of the "nofail" and "_netdev" options are exposed as a dropdown]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-storage-the-nofail-and-netdev-options-are-exposed-as-a-dropdown.png)

## Machines: Create VM based on cloud image and start it later

A VM created from a "cloud base" image can now use the "Create and edit" mode. This is a way to edit all virtual machine properties (bootloader, boot order, disks, networking, etc.) before the VM is installed.

> ## Services: Units need to be re-pinned

Reviewer 2: Wait this was part of the previous release. Just forgotten release note. https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/pull/18416

The data storage for "pinned" systemd units has changed. After upgrading to this Cockpit version, you will need to re-pin units.

## API removal: Remove cockpit.dbus.publish() and .meta()

The `cockpit.js` library dropped `cockpit.dbus.publish()` and `cockpit.dbus.meta()`, which were meant to create a D-Bus server object from inside a Cockpit page. No [known Cockpit project](https://cockpit-project.org/applications.html) has ever used these functions, and we are not aware of a good use case.

If you are using this API, please [let us know](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/issues)!

> ## Development: Cockpit now supports the esbuild bundler

Reviewer 2: Also this was part of the previous release.

---
title: Cockpit 288
author: kkoukiou
date: '2023-03-22'
tags: cockpit, machines, podman
slug: cockpit-288
category: release

> summary: 'Metrics redesign, accounts page improvements, virtual machines cloud base editing, services page speed ups, chronyd supports timeservers, and esbuild bundler'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: 'Metrics redesign, accounts page improvements, virtual machines cloud base editing, services page speed ups, chronyd manual time servers, esbuild bundler'
```

---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 288, cockpit-machines 286, and cockpit-podman 65:

> ## Accounts: Show shell and home directory on an account's detail page

Reviewer: Too long, the heading wraps. It's already clear that we are talking about Accounts here.

```suggestion
## Accounts: Show shell and home directory on an detail page
```

Account detail pages show the home directory and shell for an account.

![details page for an account, showing the newly added shell and home directory entries]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-accounts-show-shell-and-home-directory.png)

## Accounts: Custom user ID during account creation

> Custom user ID can now be specified during account creation. Initially, it's prefilled with the next available user ID on the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A custom user ID can now be specified during account creation. It defaults to the next available user ID on the system.
```

![account creation dialog showing an entry for user ID]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-accounts-custom-user-id-during-account-creation.png)

## Overview: Support additional timeservers with chronyd

Cockpit can now configure additional time servers when chronyd is used to synchronize the clock. Previously, this was only supported with systemd-timesyncd.

![screenshot of support for additional timeservers with chronyd]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-overview-support-for-additional-timeservers-with-chronyd.png)

> ## Metrics: Redesigned to show more information by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Metrics: Show longer time span by default
```

> The PCP metrics graphs have been redesigned so as to show by default more data in a single page view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PCP metrics graphs have been redesigned to only show a summary of events for each hour, so that more data fits on the page. The hours can be expanded to get more details.
```

![screenshot of new design with more info in default view]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-metrics-new-design-with-more-info-in-default-view.png)

> ![screenshot of new design in mobile mode]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-metrics-new-design-with-more-info-in-default-view-2.png)

Reviewer 2: I guess we don't need to show mobile screenshot - it's nice that it works but we don't need to advertize it?

Reviewer: Agreed, this is too much, and we don't usually do this. That was just for PR review.

## Storage: Mounting filesystems at boot time

> Filesystems created in Cockpit are usually not used for the main operating system, so they are often supplimental. As such, they now default to "nofail", to allow a server to boot even if the additional filesystem is not mounted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Filesystems created in Cockpit are usually not used for the main operating system, so they are often supplemental. As such, they now default to `nofail`, to allow a server to boot even if the additional filesystem is not mounted.
```

The new "at boot" option provides several choices with explanations of when the filesystem would be mounted and what would happen if it was not mounted.

![screenshot of the "nofail" and "_netdev" options are exposed as a dropdown]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/288-storage-the-nofail-and-netdev-options-are-exposed-as-a-dropdown.png)

## Machines: Create VM based on cloud image and start it later

A VM created from a "cloud base" image can now use the "Create and edit" mode. This is a way to edit all virtual machine properties (bootloader, boot order, disks, networking, etc.) before the VM is installed.

> ## Services: Pinned unit storage changed; re-pinning is necessary

Reviewer: Too long, header breaks line

```suggestion
## Services: Units need to be re-pinned
```
